UDP sounds completely useless when you realize that it barely adds anything to the network layer communication except a multiplexing-demultiplexing service. In fact, it's been said that when a developer chooses to use UDP he is practically talking directly with the IP itself!

Then one might wonder why anybody would ever want UDP. Probably it's like a bullock cart, something that was used when there weren't cars ( here the analogy would be with TCP) ? Nope, like almost everything in life( except Batman and Robin the movie) it does have its plus points. Let's take a look at some of those:

i) There is better "application-level" control over what data is sent and when - TCP has a bunch of internal mechanisms and processes. For example, TCP has a congestion-control mechanism which will reduce the amount of data being sent by a sender if one or more links between source and destination is clogged. It would also resend a packet till the receiver gets it properly.  This stuff leads to delays, due to all the excessive checking and waiting and everything. 
For stuff like FaceTime, where the whole selling point of the application is that it's almost like we're talking in real life with the other person, it would suck if we couldn't get the image immediately. And no matter how much I miss the person on the other side I don't think it would make a difference if I didn't get to see a few pixels of their face. So basically since we're chill with a bit of data loss and we want instantaneous sharing, we prefer UDP, where at least we have some power over the data transmission

ii)No formalities - This ties into the last point about delay. TCP connection is like two company executives talking to each other - they have to shake hands and talk about some trivial things till they get to the point and then their body language makes a huge difference to the conversation. UDP connection like two really good friends talking to each other - there are no formalities, they just get to the point and don't matter even if they goof up a little here and there. Again, this is useful when we don't want much delay. Another example of something which uses UDP is DNS. It would likely take ages just to find the IP address of the site if we used TCP here, but since this is just a basic action we use UDP.

iii) No connection state - TCP maintains something called a connection state in the end system which includes receive and send buffers, congestion control, etc. UDP on the other hand doesn't maintain any of this. This is why a server devoted to a particular application alone would be able to support many more UDP clients than TCP clients.

iv) Small packet overhead - TCP has a lot of parameters so it's header becomes huge ( 20 bytes). But a UDP segment doesn't need to so it has something less than half the size( 8 bytes)
